.TH HDFED 1 "October 31, 1999"
.\" man page by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>         -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
hdfed \- edit the contents of an HDF File
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhdfed\fP
[\fB-nobackup\fP]
[\fB-batch\fP]
\fIhdf_file\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhdfed\fP allows experienced HDF users to manipulate the
elements of an HDF file. These manipulations include
.IP *
Selecting groups and showing information about them.
.IP *
Dumping group information to output files.
.IP *
Writing group data to output files.
.IP *
Deleting groups from HDF files.
.IP *
Inserting groups in HDF files.
.IP *
Replacing elements of HDF files.
.IP *
Editing the labels and descriptions of any element in an HDF file.
.P
\fBhdfed\fP is designed primarily for users who need to know about HDF
files at the level of individual data elements. It is not designed to
provide a comprehensive high-level view of the contents of an HDF file
- other tools and utilities should be used for that purpose. To use
\fBhdfed\fP one should be familiar with the components of an HDF file
covered in the HDF Specifications manual.

The \fBhdfed\fP utility is loosely modeled on ed(1), the UNIX line
editor. When \fBhdfed\fP is invoked, it prompts the user for commands,
as does ed. Also, basic command syntax and description information is
available to the user through \fBhdfed\fP. The most common \fBhdfed\fP
commands are used to control the position in the HDF file and the
format of the information provided.

The initial view of the file under \fBhdfed\fP consists of a set of
tag/reference number pairs. Although \fBhdfed\fP allows modification
of tags and reference numbers within strict constraints, it will not
allow the user to arbitrarily modify binary data in the file.

The following terms and concepts must be understood in order to use
\fBhdfed\fP correctly and will be used in the following discussion
about \fBhdfed\fP.
.IP *
The data object or object refers to an HDF data object and the
data descriptor of that object. (i.e., tags, reference numbers,
offsets, or lengths.)
.IP *
The data or data element refers to the record that the data descriptor
points to. For a precise definition of the data that is associated
with a given tag consult the HDF Specifications and Developer's Guide
v3.2 from the HDF WWW home page at http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/.
.IP *
The group refers to a predefined collection of data objects that
correspond to a particular application. For example, a raster image
group refers to the collection of objects that are used to store all
of the information in a raster image set.
.P
Once an HDF file has been opened by \fBhdfed\fP, the following operations
can be performed on the data file, among others:
.IP *
Select an HDF object to examine more closely.
.IP *
Move forward or backward within the HDF file.
.IP *
Get information about an object. (tag, reference number, size,
label)
.IP *
Display a raster image using the ICR protocol.
.IP *
Display the contents of any object.
.IP *
Delete an object.
.IP *
Annotate an object with a label or description.
.IP *
Write an object to a second HDF file.
.IP *
Write data elements in binary form to a non-HDF file.
.IP *
Close the file and exit, or open a new file.
.P
\fBhdfed\fP commands are documented in the Users Guide section on
Command-line Utilities.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -nobackup
Make no backup file. If this option is omitted, a backup file is
automatically created.
.TP
.BI -batch
Input to \fBhdfed\fP is a stream of \fBhdfed\fP commands, rather than
interactively.  The \fB-batch\fP flag is useful when a group of
commonly-used commands are included in a UNIX shell script. The
following is an example of such a script, using the C-shell, that
lists information about the groups in a specified HDF file.
.nf

        #!/bin/csh -f
        set file=$1
        shift
        hdfed -batch $file -nobackup << EOF
        info -all group $*
        close
        quit
        EOF
        echo ""
.fi
.TP
.BI -help
Output usage information, as well as a quick list of the \fBhdfed\fPj
commands.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBhdf\fP(5),
\fBed\fP(1),
The HDF Users Guide: \fI/usr/share/doc/libhdf4g/html-userguide/Utils2.html#33\fP.
