.TH HDFLS 1 "October 31, 1999"
.\" man page by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>         -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
hdfls \- list basic information about an HDF file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhdfls\fP
[\fB-o\fP]
[\fB-l\fP]
[\fB-d\fP]
[\fB-v\fP]
[\fB-g\fP]
[\fB-s\fP]
[\fB-h\fP]
[\fB-t\fP \fIn\fP]
\fIhdf_file\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhdfls\fP provides general information about the tags,
reference numbers, and if requested, lengths of the data elements.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -o
display the reference numbers in ascending order.
.TP
.BI -l
long format.  Display more information about the file.
.TP
.BI -d
Display offset and length information for each element in the file.
.TP
.BI -v
verbose.  Display annotation and label text, along with the format
triggered by the -l flag.
.TP
.BI -g
Group.  List items by group.
.TP
.BI -s
Special elements.  Display detailed information about special
elements.
.TP
.BI -d
Display offset and length information for each element in
the file.
.TP
.BI -h
Dump DD block information.
.TP
.BI -t " n"
Tag.  Only list information about the specified tag. Must be followed
by a tag number.
.SH EXAMPLES
A file called "aa.hdf" contains three items associated with a raster
image; the image dimensions, a palette, and the raster image. To
display information about the contents of this file, the following
command is used.
.sp
hdfls aa.hdf
.sp
The following output is displayed:
.nf


        aa.hdf:

Image Dimensions-8:                     (Raster-8): (tag 200)

        Ref nos: 1

Image Palette-8:                        (Raster-8): (tag 201)

        Ref nos: 3

Raster Image-8:                 (Raster-8): (tag 202)

        Ref nos: 1

.fi
The following displays the same information with the length of each
data element:
.sp
hdfls -l aa.hdf
.sp
This would result in the following information being displayed:
.nf

        aa.hdf:

        Image Dimensions-8:             (Raster-8)      : (tag 200)

        Ref no 1                4 bytes

        Image Palette-8:                (Raster-8)      : (tag 201)

        Ref no 3                768 bytes

        Raster Image-8:         (Raster-8)      : (tag 202)

        Ref no 1                120000 bytes
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBhdf\fP(5)
