.\" man page by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>         -*- nroff -*-
.TH HDFTOR8 1 "November 6, 1999"
.SH NAME
.ad l
.nh
hdftor8 \- extract 8-Bit raster images and palettes from HDF file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
\fBhdftor8\fP \fIhdf-file\fP
[\fB-i\fP]
[\fB-v\fP]
[\fB-r\fP \fIraster-image-file\fP]
[\fB-p\fP \fIpallette-file\fP]
.ad b
.hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhdftor8\fP extracts the raster images and/or palettes from an HDF
file and stores them in one file that contains the raster image data
and another that contains the palette data.
.P
The names given for the raster image and palette
files are interpreted by hdftor8 as follows: For each raster image
file, the file name is given the extension ".#.@.%", where "#"
represents the raster image number from the HDF file, "@" represents
the x-dimension of the raster image, and "%" represents the
y-dimension of the raster image. For each palette file, the file name
is given the extensions ".#", where "#" represents the palette number
from the HDF format file.
.P
If no name is given for the raster image file, the default name
"img.#.@.%" is assigned, where "#", "@", and "%" are as defined in the
preceding paragraph. The default name for a palette file is "pal.#".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -i
Execute the program in interactive mode.
.TP
.BI -v
Execute in verbose mode. Display diagnostic messages during the
session.
.TP
.BI -r " raster-image-file"
Specify the name of the raster image file.
.TP
.BI -p " pallette-file"
Specify the name of the palette file.
.SH EXAMPLES
A file named "denm.hdf" contains three 512 x 256 raster images and
three palettes. To store these images and palettes in separate raster
image and palette files, use the following hdftor8 command:
.nf

        hdftor8 denm.hdf

.fi
Six files are created, named "img1.512.256", "img2.512.256",
"img3.512.256", "pal.1", "pal.2", and "pal.3".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBr8tohdf\fP(1), \fBhdf\fP(5)
